Logbook

Tao Zhang

CS481

1/21
Turned in personal bid

1/25
Class meeting, get back the result of groups
Get the link of our project from jordan
Download the files from github
installed the Android studio


1/31
Meet with Jordan before group meeting, asked him to teach me how to run the project on Android studio
Group meeting at 10:00
talked about what the project was done last semester

2/1 
Meet with client Mr. Aziz.
Showed us the main menu for the game on phone, and some small details of the game.
Get a cnew the game KickShot
Like the facebook page.

2/5
Group Meeting
learned how to play the games
jordon showed us his work done from last semester, which has already transfered onto andriod paltform

THE APP
Main menu: has "play game" & "exit game"
background:
the app has the board as backgroud. 
play: touch the screen, begin to roll dies and move the ball force to oneside until the defender rolls a double. once the ball reaches the end of one side. the defender rolls die to decide if he catch the ball.
Several cards will be drawed during the play.
After go through the game, I decided to work on that shows the draw card in the middle of the board instead of a new background with the card
That's what I have

2/11
Finally have time to get real start on the project.
Figured out how to open the emulator and import/run the project on emulator.
The emulator runs very slow on my Mac OS. 

Gonna run the project on my windows desktop, seems got some trouble.

2/17 
Still busy, finished most jobs of other courses. 
Still had the trouble on windows. Can't run the kickshot.
Waste a lot of time trying to figure out the problem, but failed

2/22
Emailed Jordan to get some help to fix the problem of android studio on my windows.
One thing is that the Gradle project sync failed.
When I tried to compile the project, it saids Gradle version 1.8 is required, current version is 1.9
Since really unfamiliar with Android studio, gonna do other works and wait for Jordan's responce.


2/23
A free weekend that could work on it.
Then tried to follow the tutorial and learn the basic staff.
It works well for my first app.
Waiting for the response from Jordan, but seems like he's busy. And send me a link about the gradle, followed the instruction and changed the commands in specific file. Still doesn't work. 
Well, funny thing happened. More and more issues came out, and I can't run my first app. Even re-install studio.
Finally, went back on my Mac. Everything works great (I mean, that's the same project, why windows has so many issues...)
Got my new Google Nexus7 tablet, successfully run the kickshot and MyFirstApp on it through mac. 
Just waste a lot of time on WINDOWS!

2/24
Spent most of the day learning the tutorial, e.g. Building a Simple User Interface; Starting Another Activity; Action Bar.

2/25 
As I still haven't finish my first task. Tried to search some graphic related tutorial, and learing Creating Custom Views.

2/26
Spent most of my day tracking the code and search sources to make the image to display on the original background instead of open a new background.
Get some better understanding of ImageView on Android
Finally, the action card can be shown on the background, but can't clear it when on touch.

3/1
Spent some time taking a look at the basic concept about onTouch and onClick. 

3/2
Did more research on examples of "onClick(View view)". Succeed to remove the action image when click on it.

Clone the updated version from github. Get problems on Gradle again. Hum...seems like I really need to learn something about Gradle. Decide to do some research later this week.

3/4
Wiki day. Since Jordan has the page from last semester, I just create an account and Jordan put down my name there and link to my account.
Also, asked Robert about the Gradle question, and he did have the same problem and know how to solve that, which I have to download the gradle file and set the android studio to use local gradle distruction. Also, I have to reset the gradle setting every time I open the project.

Later I found the studio came up one more issue that can't commit one .png file.
I just repull the KickShot project from GitHub again and fixed it.

3/7
Transfer the change of action image display from old version. Edit to make the code looks good. Everything works well.
Get a new request from Jordan to figure out the transparent problem that the balls have black background instead of transparency on board. 

3/9
Spent hours doing search about transparent issues for android studio. Tried bunch methods, but still can't fixed that. However, learned a lot about the Bitmap methods.

3/10
Jordan told me he fixed the problem of transparent, which is the .png file issue that he made instead of code issue.

3/11
Snapshot day. Mr. Aziz came, talked with us about the KickShot so far. I decide to do some work on dice rolling animation during the spring break. 

3/15
Take little time searching a good dice rolling recource fron online. But can't find a really good one so far.

3/19
Spring Break hard to study, only take some time to go trhough the Animation tutorial

3/24
Keep finding dice rolling animation .gif resources, but have to say the dice rolling on those free webpage is really weried.

3/29
Last time try to find any good dice rolling animation online. Totally give up to find the animation, instead I will try to make my own 3D dice rolling animation.

4/1
Find a turorial to make dice model and a really simple dice rolling animation which only pivot steering. 

Follow the tutorial, download and install the 3D animation tool -- 3ds Max.

4/2
Follow the tutorial found yesterday, take a while to become familiar with the tool.

4/5
Take couple hours to build the dice model.

The dice is made as a ChamferBox Object Type. I set the parameters for length, width, height to 40.0, and fillet to 4.0 which make the edage smooth and kind sphere.

Set 3 segaments for length, width, and height so that I can do polygon on those segments and make spots as dice number.

Enable the Box Editable Polygon, Inset those segments and then Extrude selected segments to make hollow spots as dice number.

Then, use material Editor to make the color, dice model as stadard white and spots as red. Then the dice model is done.
(Most of these staff here was talked in Graphics class. Really interesting to know)

4/8
Find some other tutorials about making dice rolling animations, try to become familiar with the animation editor, but seems like it would be hard.

4/10 
Preparing the presentation for Design Review meeting. 

4/13
Followed the first tutorial I found weeks ago, succeed to make the dice pivot rolling. which use auto key to record the dice rolling. 

4/16
Jordan got some issues on github when merge his branch to master. He asked me if I can merge the staff manually. Spent couple hours typing and copying the files onto github,

4/19
Keep doing dice rolling animation, want to have the animation that throw the dice onto a surface. Spent couple hours rotating and moving the dice around and set keys for animation bar, but looks weird...

4/22
Take more time to make the dice fall to the surface smoothly.

4/27
Update the wiki page.

4/29
Working with Jordan to make the EXPO Poster

5/2 
EXPO Day. So tired of standing there for hours.

5/8
Printing all materials and make our portfolio. Bought tags.